SFTP harvester (#8672)
geonetwork/core-geonetwork: docs/manual/docs/user-guide/harvesting/harvesting-sftp.md

# SFTP server Harvesting {#sftpserver_harvester}

This harvester will harvest metadata as XML files from a SFTP server.

## Adding a SFTP server harvester

To create a SFTP server harvester go to `Admin console` > `Harvesting` and select `Harvest from` > `SFTP server`:

![](img/add-sftp-harvester.png)

Providing the following information:

-   **Identification**
    -   *Node name and logo*: A unique name for the harvester and, optionally, a logo to assign to the harvester.
    -   *Group*: Group which owns the harvested records. Only the catalog administrator or users with the profile `UserAdmin` of this group can manage the harvester.
    -   *User*: User who owns the harvested records.

-   **Schedule**: Scheduling options to execute the harvester. If disabled, the harvester must be run manually from the harvester page. If enabled, a scheduling expression using cron syntax should be configured ([See examples](https://www.quartz-scheduler.org/documentation/quartz-2.1.7/tutorials/crontrigger)).

-   **Configure connection to SFTP**

>     -   *Server*: The SFTP host name or IP address.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    -   *SFTP host address*: The SFTP host name or IP address to connect to. Note that the 'sftp://' prefix should be omitted.
```

>     -   *Port*: The SFTP port.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    -   *SFTP port*: The port to connect to (usually 22).
```

>     -   *Remote folder*: The path name of the directory containing the metadata (as XML files) to be harvested. The directory must be accessible by GeoNetwork.
>     -   *Also search in subfolders*: If checked and the *Directory* path contains other directories, then the harvester will traverse the entire file system tree in that directory and add all metadata files found.
>     -   *Username*: The username to connect to the SFTP server.
>     -   *Use private  public keys*: Generates a private/public key to connect to the SFTP server instead of using a password. The user must configure the public key on the SFTP server.
>     -   *Key type*: Select the algorithm to create the keys: RSA (4096 bits) / ECDSA.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    -   *SFTP home directory*: Directory path on the SFTP server containing the metadata (XML files) that need to be harvested. Set to '/' to start searching from the "root" directory of the connection. Note that the user that you are connecting with may already be mapped to a specific directory on the SFTP server.
    -   *Recurse subfolders*: If checked, the harvester will recursively process metadata in all folders (within the given home directory) as well as their subfolders. Otherwise, only the items in the home directory itself will be processed.
    -   *Username*: The username to connect to the SFTP server.
    -   *Use SSH key*: If checked, a private/public key will be generated to connect to the SFTP server. An SSH key is a more secure authentication method than a password, and is therefore recommended. However, the user (or an administrator) must configure the generated public key on the SFTP server in order for it to work.
        - *SSH key type*: Select the algorithm to create the SSH keys. You can choose between RSA (4096 bits) or ECDSA.
```

>     -   *Password*: The password to connect to the SFTP server. Only applies when *Use private  public keys* is not enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    -   *Password*: The password to connect to the SFTP server. Only applies when *Use SSH key* is unchecked.
```

> # SFTP server Harvesting {#sftpserver_harvester}
> 
> This harvester will harvest metadata as XML files from a SFTP server.
> 
> ## Adding a SFTP server harvester
> 
> To create a SFTP server harvester go to `Admin console` > `Harvesting` and select `Harvest from` > `SFTP server`:
> 
> ![](img/add-sftp-harvester.png)
> 
> Providing the following information:
> 
> -   **Identification**
>     -   *Node name and logo*: A unique name for the harvester and, optionally, a logo to assign to the harvester.
>     -   *Group*: Group which owns the harvested records. Only the catalog administrator or users with the profile `UserAdmin` of this group can manage the harvester.
>     -   *User*: User who owns the harvested records.
> 
> -   **Schedule**: Scheduling options to execute the harvester. If disabled, the harvester must be run manually from the harvester page. If enabled, a scheduling expression using cron syntax should be configured ([See examples](https://www.quartz-scheduler.org/documentation/quartz-2.1.7/tutorials/crontrigger)).
> 
> -   **Configure connection to SFTP**
>     -   *SFTP host address*: The SFTP host name or IP address to connect to. Note that the 'sftp://' prefix should be omitted.
>     -   *SFTP port*: The port to connect to (usually 22).
>     -   *SFTP home directory*: Directory path on the SFTP server containing the metadata (XML files) that need to be harvested. Set to '/' to start searching from the "root" directory of the connection. Note that the user that you are connecting with may already be mapped to a specific directory on the SFTP server.
>     -   *Recurse subfolders*: If checked, the harvester will recursively process metadata in all folders (within the given home directory) as well as their subfolders. Otherwise, only the items in the home directory itself will be processed.
>     -   *Username*: The username to connect to the SFTP server.
>     -   *Use SSH key*: If checked, a private/public key will be generated to connect to the SFTP server. An SSH key is a more secure authentication method than a password, and is therefore recommended. However, the user (or an administrator) must configure the generated public key on the SFTP server in order for it to work.
>         - *SSH key type*: Select the algorithm to create the SSH keys. You can choose between RSA (4096 bits) or ECDSA.
>     -   *Password*: The password to connect to the SFTP server. Only applies when *Use SSH key* is unchecked.
>     
> -   **Configure response processing for filesystem**
>     -   *Action on UUID collision*: When a harvester finds the same uuid on a record collected by another method (another harvester, importer, dashboard editor,...), should this record be skipped (default), overriden or generate a new UUID?
>     -   *Update catalog record only if file was updated*
>     -   *Keep local even if deleted at source*: If checked then metadata records that have already been harvested will be kept even if they have been deleted from the *Directory* specified.
>     -   *Validate records before import*: Defines the criteria to reject metadata that is invalid according to XML structure (XSD) and validation rules (schematron).
>         -   Accept all metadata without validation.
>         -   Accept metadata that are XSD valid.
>         -   Accept metadata that are XSD and schematron valid.
>     -   *XSL transformation to apply*: (Optional)  The referenced XSL transform will be applied to each metadata record before it is added to GeoNetwork.
>     -   *Batch edits*: (Optional) Allows to update harvested records, using XPATH syntax. It can be used to add, replace or delete element.
>     -   *Category*: (Optional) A GeoNetwork category to assign to each metadata record.
> 
> -   **Privileges** - Assign privileges to harvested metadata.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# SFTP Server Harvesting {#sftpserver_harvester}

This harvester collects metadata as XML files from an SFTP server.

## Adding a SFTP Server Harvester

To create a SFTP server harvester, navigate to `Admin console` > `Harvesting` and select `Harvest from` > `SFTP server`:

![](img/add-sftp-harvester.png)

Provide the following information:

- **Identification**
    - *Node name and logo*: Specify a unique name for the harvester and, optionally, assign a logo.
    - *Group*: Select the group that will own the harvested records. Only the catalog administrator or users with the `UserAdmin` profile for this group can manage the harvester.
    - *User*: Indicate the user who will own the harvested records.

- **Schedule**: Configure scheduling options for executing the harvester. If disabled, the harvester must be run manually from the harvester page. If enabled, provide a scheduling expression using cron syntax.

- **SFTP Connection Configuration**
    - *SFTP host address*: Enter the SFTP host name or IP address (omit the 'sftp://' prefix).
    - *SFTP port*: Specify the port to connect to (usually 22).
    - *SFTP home directory*: Enter the directory path on the SFTP server containing the metadata (XML files) to be harvested. Use '/' to start from the root directory of the connection.
    - *Recurse subfolders*: If checked, the harvester will recursively process metadata in all folders within the specified home directory, including subfolders. If unchecked, only items in the specified directory will be harvested.
    - *Username*: Provide the username for connecting to the SFTP server.
    - *Use SSH key*: If checked, a private/public key pair will be generated to connect to the SFTP server. Using an SSH key is a more secure authentication method than a password and is recommended.
        - *SSH key type*: Choose the algorithm for SSH key creation: RSA (4096 bits) or ECDSA.
    - *Password*: Enter the password for connecting to the SFTP server. This is only required if *Use SSH key* is unchecked.

- **Filesystem Response Processing Configuration**
    - *Action on UUID collision*: Specify what to do when a harvested record shares a UUID with a record collected by another method (e.g., another harvester, importer, dashboard editor). You can choose to skip the record (default) or update it.
    - *Update catalog record only if file was updated*: Only update the catalog record if the source file has changed.
    - *Keep local even if deleted at source*: If checked, metadata records that have already been harvested will be retained even if they are deleted from the specified directory on the SFTP server.
    - *Validate records before import*: Set the criteria for rejecting invalid metadata based on XML structure (XSD) and validation rules (schematron):
        - Accept all metadata without validation.
        - Accept metadata that are XSD valid.
        - Accept metadata that are both XSD and schematron valid.
    - *XSL transformation to apply*: (Optional) Reference an XSL transform to apply to each metadata record before it is added to GeoNetwork.
    - *Batch edits*: (Optional) Update harvested records using XPath syntax. You can add, replace, or delete elements.
    - *Category*: (Optional) Assign a GeoNetwork category to each metadata record.

- **Privileges**: Assign privileges to the harvested metadata.
```
